So I hear that we've got a couple
of questions in, which is good.
What we got?
>> At what scale do you think
about a design system and
when it begins to matter?
How many designers before the effort
put in begins to pay off?
>> I can only talk from my
own personal experience.
But I think a design system
is always worth having.
I don't think you need multiple designers
to get value out of the design system.
I think what you need is a design that you
are going to be returning
to multiple times.
So which, in my opinion,
should be almost all designs, right,
especially what we're about to move on to,
post-launch optimization of a website.
And so if you are going to be evolving and
improving your website over time,
it really is helpful to
have a design system,
because you can assemble new pages, new
approaches very, very quickly and easily.
So no, it's not about having
multiple designers so much, as I
think it is about having a design that
you're gonna be returning to regularly.
And that could be any size site,
it doesn't need to be a massive
multinational, a small e-commerce
site may well justify it.
In fact, it's very rare for
me to work on a site that wouldn't benefit
from a design system, and not all of
my projects are big, by any means.
Sorry, yes,
hopefully that answers the question.
Is there another one?
>> What do you do when you realize you've
made a mistake after the presentation
which could lead to major
problems down the road?
How would you address those mistakes?
>> I guess it depends
on the type of mistake.
I have been forced in the past
to do project resets,
it's like the new killer
option if all else fails.
And basically I say, I will sit
down with a client and say, look,
this isn't working.
Something's gone wrong.
The relationship's gone wrong,
the design direction is gone wrong.
Let's circle back and instead of
just trying to patch what we've got,
let's take a step back and reproach it.
So that's a kinda new killer option to it.
I don't like doing that, partly because
you lose a lot of money from doing that,
and also,
I don't like admitting defeat, I think.
But with other scenarios like that where
you feel like you've made a mistake,
often honesty is the best policy.
And a willingness on your part to
recognize you've made a mistake,
even if that mistake is in how you've
handled and interacted with the client.
So to give you give you a real
example that happened to me,
I beat myself up for ages over this.
So that happened quite recently where I
was getting really frustrated working with
one particular client, because they
were saying all the right things,
they wanted to do all the right things.
Yet every time I suggested any kind
of change to the way that their
website currently worked or
the challenges that we're facing,
there was always a reason
why they couldn't do it.
They knew it was a form, there was a form
on their website that wasn't performing.
They knew it wasn't performing.
They knew it was a bad user experience.
They knew it had to be fixed, but every
time I mentioned any change to that form,
there was a reason why
they couldn't do it.
And in one meeting, I just lost my cool.
And I didn't scream or shout or
anything melodramatic like that.
But I did start to express my frustration
that we're going around in circles and
not getting anywhere here.
And I came away from that going,
I've blown that relationship, right?
And so I just dropped the guy an email and
said, that was totally unprofessional,
I completely screwed it up,
I am really sorry.
I just wanna see this succeed, but the way
I talked, my attitude over it sucked.
And of course,
most people are really gracious.
And he turned around and said, [LAUGH]
he said, I appreciate your passion,
which I think was a passive aggressive
way of saying, tone it down.
But anyway, he was lovely about it.
And you can't ask for more than that.
So yeah, I think a lot of the times,
it is just acknowledging your mistakes.
It's in talking about it with
the client and going from there.
I mean, they might have
something specific in mind,
in which case I'm quite
happy to answer that.
But as a general rule of thumb,
that's kind of my thinking.